# Medicare-and-Medicaid-EHR-Incentive-Program-Analysis-Python
The Medicare Electronic Health Record (EHR) Incentive Program provides incentives to eligible clinicians and hospitals to adopt electronic health records. This dataset combines meaningful use attestations from the Medicare EHR Incentive Program and certified health IT product data from the ONC Certified Health IT Product List (CHPL) to identify the unique vendors, products, and product types of each certified health IT product used to attest to meaningful use. (data, 2017) Data set merges information about the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Programs attestations with the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT Certified Health IT Products List. This new dataset enables systematic analysis of the distribution of certified EHR vendors and products among those providers that have attested to meaningful use within the CMS EHR Incentive Programs. The data set can be analyzed by state, provider type, provider specialty, and practice setting. (Technology, 2017)  The dataset also includes important provider-specific data, related to the provider's participation and status in the program, unique provider identifiers, and other characteristics unique to each provider, like geography and provider type. Because providers may declare more than one EHR product when attesting, this list also provides a unique ID (i.e. NPI) for each provider. The Medicare EHR Incentive Program provides incentive payments to eligible providers as they adopt, implement, upgrade, or demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology. The CHPL provides the authoritative, comprehensive listing of certified health IT products that have been tested under the ONC Certification Program. (data, 2017) The complete dataset exceeds 1 million rows of data. This data is intended to provide names of EHR products and their vendors, the certification classification of each product (Complete or Modular), the healthcare setting for which the product was certified (Ambulatory or Inpatient), the type of provider attesting to “meaningful use” of an HER, the Incentive Program the provider attested in (Medicare or Medicare/Medicaid), Unique ID for each attestation, Version of EHR product and the Stage of Meaningful Use that the provider attested to (Stage 1/Stage 2). The size of the dataset is 370 MB with 23 columns giving all the necessary information about it. The information in this dataset is from April 2011 till present which is very useful for finding interesting trends from this dataset.
